This is Jockel Podcast number 120.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
So it's been a while since Q&A.
Yeah.
So we have some Q&A from the interwebs.
Go.
First question.
Jockel.
More than once on the podcast, you've mentioned how the teams were so competitive
that no one wanted to admit when they were cold, being too cold puts you at a tactical disadvantage.
In hindsight, was that a failure to control your ego?
So your ego doesn't control you.
I didn't ask this question out of idle curiosity.
A lot of folks in an active duty listed to the podcast and I'm concerned they might put
themselves.
Their teammates and their mission in jeopardy because of their ego's won't let them admit
their too hot or too cold.
All right.
So good question.
Good point.
And there's definitely a big difference between being uncomfortably cold, right?
Like you're just uncomfortably cold or uncomfortably hot or uncomfortably thirsty or
hungry or whatever.
And being in an actual state where you're putting the mission in jeopardy because you're
too cold or hot or thirsty or whatever.
So I just needed to say this.
In the teams, you are 95% of the time you are cold, too cold, too hot, too wet, too
thirsty, too miserable, something.
There's no time.
When you're in the field, you put on a hundred pounds worse or worse or worse or worse
or worse or worse or worse or worse or worse or worse.
You're uncomfortable from the word go.
From the word go.
And you're cold.
You come in over the beach.
You're in wet camis.
It doesn't matter.
You come out with great technology.
We got to dry suit of this.
We got to wet suit that.
No, you're miserable.
You're going to be cold.
You're going to be uncomfortable.
You're riding a zodiac.
First you're riding a big rib, which is like a 10 meter boat.
And you have your zodiacs on that boat.
So you're in that boat.
You're getting sprayed with water.
You're getting bounced up and down.
You do that for three hours.
And then you launch your little boats into the water.
Well, while you're doing that, you fall in the water.
You slip, you get sprayed more, you're covered in water.
By the way, the water's not warm.
And then you've got to, because you're going to travel then 15 knots.
So you've got to feel facing a 15 knot headwind for the another two hours in a zodiac.
And then you're going to get in the water and swim both between.
You're going to be cold.
That's just the way it is.
And you can't complain about that.
So and you don't complain about it.
In the teams, you just keep your mouth shut.
That's what you do.
Keep your mouth shut.
The big distinction here is this is correct.
If you're going to get high pithermia or you're going to get a heat stroke or you're going
to go down from dehydration, then yeah, you've got to speak up and be, you're going to say,
hey, guess what?
I got an issue here.
I'm starting to get dizzy or I'm starting to get lightheaded or whatever.
Yeah, if you cross the line to where it goes from discomfort to actual problem, then you
definitely need to speak up.
It does happen.
It happens a lot actually.
When we do our land warfare training in the desert, in the summertime, it's 120 degree heat.
You're going to take heat catch.
Please, when I was running training, we used to just have premeditated heat casualties
evacuation.
Because we knew someone was going to go down.
That's just the way it's going to happen.
Because you've got 40 guys that are all turning and burning and they're all running on
three or four hours of sleep.
And then they're going out in the field and they just got back from the field and there's
no time to rehydrate.
Okay, there's time, but some guys might forget to rehydrate.
Next thing you know, you've got to go down.
The stuff does happen.
Yeah, you've got to let your team know it's going on.
The closest call I had, I was on a long patrol training patrol in the Ozark Mountains
of Arkansas, it was summertime, it was hot.
We were planning to pump water, meaning you bring a little water filtration system into
the field and you get to a stream and you can fill your canteens and it's great and
it seems like you have water forever because it streams.
Well, the way the patrol went, we started off in pairs and then we linked up with fire
team and then we linked up with squad and then you look up with a platoon.
Well while we were in the squad, link up, we, for whatever reason, the course that I was
on, I didn't hit water, we had a couple of streams that were supposed to be there and
they weren't because they're intermittent streams.
So sometimes streams aren't running year round and the time of year it was, the streams
weren't running.
So the first one, I was like, okay, okay, got to, so you'll up over a mountain, come
back down the other side, get to this where the stream is marked intermittent stream
is marked on a map.
Guess what, no stream.
So by that time I was out of water.
So now coming, the next day, I said to myself, you know, if there's not water on this
next stream, I'm gonna, I'm gonna have issues and then it wasn't water the next day.
So yeah, that's, but I started to feel the dehydration coming on me.
That's why I hate being thirsty.
I always carry as much water as I can.
You gotta be paranoid about being thirsty.
Once you start going down from a dehydration, it's really a bad situation.
You went the whole day?
No, it was two days.
Yeah, I had water going in, but I didn't have a ton of water.
I should have had one, well, I should have maybe two more meters of water as a, as a just in case.
But I didn't, I didn't, I didn't carry.
Yeah, because you gotta carry it.
Now you're heavier, now you're sweating more.
So there's a little balance, you gotta figure it out.
But yeah, you can't be a problem.
Yes, I have seen it become a problem where guys, egos too big.
They don't want to admit it for sure.
So yes, this is a good warning.
Don't let your ego get you in real trouble because that's gonna hurt your platoon even
more.
So don't let that happen.
Don't let your ego prevent you from telling the truth about what's happening.
And this happens in, this is gonna happen in the business world too.
Where, oh, you know what?
I don't really know how to operate this piece of equipment, but I'm not gonna say anything.
I'm just gonna try and do it.
Well, that's how someone gets hurt.
So again, that's an ego problem.
When you have an issue, when you know you can't do something or you've never done something
before, step up and raise your hand.
Now of course, you should have done the research, you should have, you know, you should have
figured some stuff out on your own.
But if you failed to do that, don't dig the whole deeper.
Raise your hand, say what the problem was.
There you go.
Good question.
Yeah, make sense.
Because especially the thirst thing, like the dehydration thing, yeah, you don't want
to be the guy saying, oh, I'm thirst.
Here's the, I think nowadays though, like teams and coaches, here's the thing in football.
So pop one or football, they'd be like, yeah, no water.
You know, we have a water break.
You drink water at the water break.
Otherwise you're practicing.
You know, kind of thing.
It's like a tough and you're up thing.
But man, that can jam your health up.
Yeah, but let's face it.
I mean, it would be pretty rare.
If you gave people the, if you're doing a practice, what the how long is a practice last
two hours?
Okay, bro, you can make it two hours.
If you're properly hydrated now, if a person's not properly hydrated, going into the
practice, sure, that can, that can be a problem.
But if someone is properly hydrated, going into the situation, it should not be a problem.
And I'll say what, if you are in the military and you're going in the field, man, pre-hydrate
like that, you used to save me so much from carrying so much water, just drinks so much
water.
Now, take where the problem comes in, you're in a helicopter ride for an hour and a half.
Yeah.
And you got to piss so bad.
It's awful.
Well, you know what, bring a little, bring a little plastic bottle with you.
So you can piss into the bottle.
That's the way less of an issue.
I think, like, finding a place to drink versus, for sure.
It's way to be able to have to.
But yeah, if you pre-hydrate properly, no matter how hard you're working, you can go
like 12 hours without any water.
Which is pretty legit.
For, you know, kind of an average seal mission, 12 hours, get your brilliant plenty of
time.
Yeah.
But kid, I mean, I'm talking pop warning here.
So, you know, we're on a no-gjog.
We're not talking to you.
We're talking pop warning.
Yeah.
But here's the weird thing.
Like when you went to high school college, they'd have water right there, right there
on the sideline.
And they, you know, they're really aware of, hey, you need good, you need water, drink
more water.
Well, I think that was also the time.
Yeah, that's the, actually the point.
The era, the era, right?
Like, when we were kids, no one ever, ever, one single time in my whole, from the time
I was zero until I was 18.
No one ever said to me, hey, make sure you drink water.
Never, never heard anyone say that.
It was like, oh, you're thirsty drink a Coke.
You know, that's the way it was.
So that changed for you in that time period.
Yeah.
When I got to, when I got to seal training, when I got a buds, that's when they were
saying, oh, you're going to stay hydrated.
I thought it was kind of a joke.
I thought they were getting hit first.
Yeah, nuts.
Like, what do you tell them about hydrogen, you mean drink water?
What do you mean?
Why would you call it something else?
Hydrated.
Yeah.
What are your thirst ever?
Like, it's like this mate, will you shut?
Because you can go down from like heat, kid, this like for there's heat exhaustion.
Heat stroke, heat exhaustion.
Yeah.
And heat.
There's all kinds of heat injuries you can get.
Yeah.
And you get heat stroke, but you can straight up die.
Oh, yeah.
So that's not, you know, it's not a matter of like, oh, yeah, tough it out.
But you can't tough it out.
You're shutting down.
Kind of big.
That's for sure.
So, you know, that is important.
It's for the heat thing.
And I guess that is.
That is.
And that's going back to this question.
That is probably why we would see heat casualties in training because guys do not want
to say anything.
They're like man, I'm not going to say anything.
Yeah.
I'm not going to get it now.
Keep it worse.
That's what happened.
You could stuck with an IV now you're laying in the field.
Everyone else, by the way, continues on doing another 10 kilometer hump to a target.
And you're sitting there laid up in the ambulance like a little baby.
No one wants that.
But if you pre-high-pre-high-pre-high-pre-prop, you won't be in that situation.
Yeah.
But if you are going to get that situation, you need to say something.
We're talking about your life.
Yeah.
Essentially.
And more important.
We're talking about the mission.
Yeah.
I'm still thinking about the potworn of situation.
Yeah, man.
I dig it and you are correct.
I can't help it.
I agree with you 100%.
That question.
Jockel.
Dear Jockel.
My chosen community has lost and continues to lose members due to suicide.
One reason is that they don't ask for help.
I think one reason they don't ask for help is that they're afraid of being or being seen
as weak.
Somewhere that this takes strength and discipline to be able to perceive when you need help
and to ask for it.
I don't know how to convey that to them.
Could you address how one can gather support from their team without losing face?
So there's an obvious reason why I paired these two questions together because they're both
very, very similar.
And it's the same thing.
And if we don't, if a member of your team won't come forward and admit they haven't
issued, then the issue is not going to get addressed.
And this is the same exact thing they have to explain to your team.
Like, hey, if you start going down because you're dehydrated or you're starting getting
getting frostbite and you need to get warmed up, you need to say something.
If you don't say something, that's going to hurt the whole team.
That's what's bad.
So I think that's important.
I think that's important to make sure everyone understands that this part of being a good
operator is knowing your limitations and when you reach your limitations, raising your hand
and saying, hey, this is a problem.
And believe me, there's guys that might complain about little things and they're eventually
going to be labeled as a little complainer, right?
And they don't really have issues.
So there's a fine line, right?
There's a fine line.
But for someone that's having some kind of mental stress, well, again, we got to recognize
what's going on.
We got to recognize that it's impacting us negatively at work.
So that means you got to raise your hand.
If it's having a negative impact on the way you're performing, then you got to raise your
hand.
And I think it's important to explain to people that this is something that happens to
can happen to everybody.
And it's not a negative thing.
It's just a reality.
It's kind of like it reminds me of being afraid, right?
And if you're, let's say you got a new guy that's never done anything before and he doesn't
know that he's going to be afraid, going on an operation, then he's going to wonder why
a stomach is upset or why he's second guess himself or why he can't sleep.
Like, oh, you can't sleep.
Guess what?
That's normal.
You're going on a hardcore combat operation tomorrow.
The fact that you can't sleep is completely normal. The fact that you feel sick, your stomach
is completely normal.
The fact that you're, you're, you're shaking.
Those things are normal.
Like, you're going to feel those.
That's okay.
It's not that big of a deal.
And those things are just fear.
That's what they are.
And if you know what they are and you know that fear is okay and it's acceptable and it's
actually kind of good, right?
Because if, if you're not feeling any fear whatsoever, then you know, you've got some, well,
you should be feeling afraid.
You should feel fear.
That should, that should propel you.
It should get you on edge.
Those are all those things are actually happening for a reason.
So there's nothing wrong with that.
And I think that's the same thing that you got to explain to people with stress.
Like, oh, okay, that you can have too much fear.
You keep someone at that heightened state for an extended period of time.
Well, that's called combat stress and it's real and it can happen.
It can happen anyone.
And you know what?
Because if we talked about on this podcast where you can see stress, combat stress taking
it's toll on people.
And when it does, you know, we've talked about it many times.
If you get to that point, you need a break and dick winners from Banda Brothers.
You know, he would give those guys breaks without them even knowing that he was given
a break.
Hey, echo, you got to go back and do a little logistics run for four days.
Just make sure we have more supplies coming away.
Get you off the front line, get you a breather.
So that way, again, the same metaphor I've used before is if you have an engine in the
red and you keep running it, what's going to happen in the engine?
It's going to burn out.
It's not going to be usable.
If you have someone that's psychologically stressed and they're in the red and you keep
running them in the red, guess what?
Eventually they're not going to be usable anymore.
So you need to give them a break, get them off the line.
Because if you do take an engine, if you're engine like check engine like comes on and you
go and get it maintained, get it fixed, the engine's still good.
If you keep running it, the engine will be destroyed.
So you got to do that with your people.
You got to make sure everybody knows and I think that's a real simple metaphor to use
with people as well.
Say, look, we're running hard and we're going to put some stress on the engine.
And if you don't keep the engine maintained, the engine's going to break and you won't
be any good to the team.
You won't be any good for the mission.
So if you start feeling your engine like go on, you got to let someone know so we can
give you the proper maintenance.
And that's it.
Jody Middick talked about that too.
Jody was saying, hey, you know, basically if you get injured, if you break your ankle,
they don't just expect you just to keep going.
No, like, okay, you need to get back and you need to rehab while the same thing can happen
to your brain.
Your brain gets a break in it.
You don't just keep driving or it's going to fracture a fall apart.
What do you do?
You take a break.
You get down time and you get recovered and then you'll be ready to rock and roll again.
So two really good questions to start it off.
You know, again, especially for folks out there on the battlefield.
And then it's not just for people on the battlefield because it happens with any group of
people that are in a stressful environment.
I mean, obviously cops get put into a really stressful environment all the time.
Well, if you need to take a breather, you need to say something before you, before you
burn out the engine.
Yeah.
Same thing with business world, right?
People in the business world get extremely stressed out.
Well, you probably need to break at some point.
Make sure you work that in there.
You don't like, like, police have like a mandatory program or mandatory situation where,
you know, you go through, I think we're like, when they shoot someone or something like
that, like mandatory, you have to go to like some kind of like counseling.
Yeah, most of them do now or yeah.
Yeah.
So that makes sense too because even if let's say you don't necessarily need it or whatever,
right, you go through a shooting situation, you got to go a mandatory and then, oh,
I got to go through it.
It's good that everyone kind of does it because it seems like, oh, it takes away the negative
this deep, you know, like, kind of like, oh, I'm the only guy.
You know, I'm the only guy that apparently feels this way.
I'm looking around.
No one else is going to counseling.
Yeah.
And now I'm the only guy.
I must be the weak guy.
So I don't, I'm not saying that.
Yeah, they've done that somewhat in the military of, hey, when you come home from the
planet, everyone's going to go talk to talk to, what is it a psychotherapy or something?
Yeah.
Just they kind of do that.
I know they did that in the school teams where they'd be everyone would go, they didn't
do all I was in.
They'd give it, you like a piece of paper to fill out, which everyone just got in a gun
decked.
You know, what does that mean?
Yeah.
Just pencil whip.
I don't know what, I don't know.
It just like, you know, fill it out except for Tony.
You know, Tony wrote on the head of his, what?
He wrote, this is a cry for help.
That was pretty funny.
But anyways, that was, he filled out like a whole fake one about just a funny one.
Yeah.
Dang.
I got a fake out of it.
Yeah.
But it makes sense, though, because of that.
Because that's kind of the, that's really the most important way to do things.
It's the smart way to do things.
Let's give everyone a baseline sort of, okay, check.
Here you go.
Yeah.
And that way, no one has to go.
No one has to take raise their hand first.
Yeah.
You're all going to talk to somebody.
I think it's a smart thing to do.
Yeah.
Because it's kind of the thing, right?
It kind of goes along with the earlier question too.
Like, if it's a water break and hey, guys, water break, everyone's drinking water.
So now it's like, you don't have to feel like, the one plus who like needs this water.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
No, no.
That's the exact same thing.
Yeah.
So yeah.
If you got an issue man, speak up.
Everyone knows, you know, that way you can do your job.
You can do it longer.
You can do it better.
Your goal is to do the, is to be the best possible that you, be the best possible capability
so that you can go out and do your job the best.
If you've, if you've got issues, you've got to say something so that you can keep doing
your job for the team.
Yeah.
It's like, like, don't look at yourself as being weak.
Look at yourself is trying to optimize your strength kind of go.
You know, maybe just a flip over the way you look at it.
There it is.
Next question.
Do you think martial arts tournaments are the most effective way for preparing for
physical confrontation?
I just competed my second due to tournament as a three straight white belt.
In one match, I completely lost focus and control of my mind because I believe I was taken
a back by the strength and wildness of my opponent in a big 100%.
I barely, I can barely even remember how the match unfolded.
I've given this match significant thought and I concluded that I need to compete more.
I'm very comfortable with everyone in my academy.
I trust that as I roll with without question, they're like family now.
The guy, the guy in the tournament was a total stranger.
He was unknown and therefore he listed fear.
I allowed myself to be crippled by fear.
Is there any other way to overcome this beyond competing tournaments?
Thank you.
All right.
You know, competing is definitely part of it.
And it's interesting that he's asking if this is the most effective way to prepare for
a physical confrontation.
It is a very good way to help you prepare for a physical confrontation.
And the bottom line is competing.
One of the things that's true with competing and it's true with anything is that the
more familiar you are with the unfamiliar, the more familiar it will become.
I know that sounds pretty obvious, but the more familiar you are with the unfamiliar, the
more familiar it will become.
So you get to become familiar with things that are unfamiliar.
And you learn how to handle things that you aren't expecting.
In the teams, we always talk about your first free fall jump when you learn how to skydive
with the free fall rig.
And your first jump seems like it's like three seconds long, even though it's a minute.
Even though it's a minute because you're all amped up and you all you see is your
altimeter and the more you jump the more you see.
Until that minute, I mean, have you ever tried to hold your breath for a minute?
That's like a long time, right?
But and that's that's the amount of time that can take up a free fall can be a nice
long minute where you're observing all these different things.
But when you first start doing it, it doesn't seem very long.
I'm sure if we had Andy, Andy Stumpfon here, his one minute free fall price seems like
a really, really long time because he's got thousands of of jumps.
And so this is the same thing, the more you train for chaos, the more accustomed you're
going to become to the chaos.
Now what's great is in this particular case, he's talking about this guy's just wild and
crazy and hey, if you survive it that first time, well, the next time someone goes wild
and crazy, like, okay, well, here's what I need to do.
I need to put this in check.
I need to hold on.
I need to make sure he, I don't give any positions, but I'm not going to get crazy.
I'm just going to absorb some, you go through that mental drill and the more you go through
that mental drill, the better you will get at it.
And this is true.
This is true with anything.
And that's why, you know, when I was running the sales training, we put the, we would
make it.
So we'd hit people with the most random possible things because that's what prepares you
for random possible things is random possible things.
That's what you want to deal with.
It's kind of weird, you know, in Gjitsu, Dean, Dean, you used to talk about this.
And now you can hear John Donner talking about it as well.
And if, if you have never been in a certain situation before, you're not ready for it.
And when, okay, so there's a, there's a position in, in Gjitsu called 5050, right?
That's what it's called now.
We used to call it Kakaraco because that's the position that Dean was in when he beat
a guy named Kakaraco for the ADCC, World Championships.
And Dean, Dean calls that position 9010 because he's been in it so much that even though
it's a neutral position, meaning we both have the same advantages and disadvantages.
When Dean's in that position, he's been in it so much that he's got a 90% chance.
He's got a 90% chance to success because he's been there 10 times, 20 times, 30 times
more than you.
And I heard John Donner talking about the same thing the other day.
He's getting his, his Gjitsu fighters right now are doing things to guys that are, that
they're putting people in positions that the person's not used to.
So if you're not used to it, guess what?
You're an advantage, even though I might have trained, even though let's say I'm a Gjitsu
Black belt.
And I've been training for 20 years.
If I've never been in this particular position before, it's, I might as well be a white belt
mechanism.
You can see that happening.
You can see that happening in Gjitsu.
That's why when somebody comes up with a new, new type of moves, that move can be effective
for a little while.
Like let's say you came up with a new move.
You might catch me in that new move one time.
And then I go, I know what he did.
But now, if instead of just a new move, you had a whole new area that I had to learn.
Yeah, then I had to learn a whole new deal.
It's the same thing with Eddie Bravo and 10th planet.
You know, like they were doing things like, oh, I've never been in this position before.
Now what do I do?
They were catching guys like that.
And then the more people figure out that part of that system.
Okay, well, then you get better at it and we get to a neutral ground again.
But anytime you can, so in training, anytime you can get to be put yourself in a situation
that you haven't been before, it's going to be beneficial to you.
Now what is, how does this translate to real physical confrontations?
Right?
How do you train for that?
Well, how often are you putting on gloves and Gjitsu?
How often are you having somebody punch you in the face?
How often are you having somebody come up and push you around?
How often are you having people do things that people can do in a street fight?
Right?
People are going to do in a street fight that they wouldn't normally do in a Gjitsu match.
For instance, in a street fight is anyone ever start on the knees?
Right?
They don't start on the knees.
They don't start on the knees and street fight.
You don't say, hey, you want to fight me and then you didn't get down on your knees.
And so does the other guy.
Now we figure out what happens.
No, street fights don't start on the knees.
So you're almost, and people ask me this, actually somebody asks me the other day, what
should I do when starting from the knees?
What's a good take down?
I'm like, oh, my God, pull guard.
Because why are you on your knees?
The best thing to do if your opponent is on their knees, stand up and kick them in the
face.
Right?
You're not going to be, why would you be on your knees?
Yeah.
So don't practice that.
So how do you prepare for the best way to prepare for these combat situations is, is
Gjitsu tournament a good way?
Yes, it is a good way.
Is boxing is boxing a good way?
Is it good to do a smokers?
So you figure out what it's like when somebody, you want to talk about someone going
wild with you.
You get someone that's untrained in boxing come thrown, thrown, you know, windmill
hammakers at you, 38 in a row.
Now they're going to be exhausted after that first 32 seconds.
But you will have had to have withstand and not get punched in the head.
Yeah.
Because if you get punched in the head by a wild hammaker, I don't care who you are.
If they connect with your chin, there's a possibility you might go down.
So you need to be careful that.
So don't just think, oh, just Gjitsu, hey, go out, train some boxing, train some
moitai and go in sparr.
And if you can do a smokers because smokers pretty easy to do, in other words, you don't
need to do like a full preparation camp and all that.
Yeah.
It's an unofficial event.
So you go do a smokers and you're going to experience somebody going wild on you, throwing
haymakers at you, throwing crazy kicks at you.
Do that, do all these things to get ready for those physical competitions.
And then you also on top of that, you read and you look at YouTube videos.
Go watch YouTube.
I've talked about this before.
Go watch YouTube videos and street fights because you get to see what people, what
kind of things people do, which can be very effective.
Right?
So learn to watch out for soccer punches.
You need to learn to watch out, watch your back and watch your sneaking up on you and
be aware of your surroundings and put your back against the wall.
You know, there's all these little things that you can do to make sure that you're not
going to get soccer punched.
But you got to pay attention to those things.
Yeah.
That wildness that he talks about.
That is a huge thing.
It's like a whole another factor, especially in exactly how he said he's real, he's real familiar
with his training partners.
So man, you know, the amount of cruising and kind of relax and even during the role,
there's probably significant amount of it almost to the point where it seems like anyway
where he kind of maybe expects that or even subconsciously kind of he understands that
that's kind of part of the deal.
You go against a complete stranger and he gets wild.
And it's like, whoa, this is like, it's kind of overwhelming.
Yeah.
And also, even at the three stripe white belt level, this other guy,
he may, he's got his little game.
He's got his game that he plays.
And there's a chance that as a three stripe white belt, you haven't learned that part
of the game.
So it just feels crazy.
Yeah.
And that whole, you know, when you compete for the first second time, you know, just a
little earlier.
See, that as the thing is, the more you train, the less holes there are.
Yeah.
Right.
The less holes you are.
There are in your game.
And so if you're a three stripe white belt, you might not have good guard
replacement, right?
Like you really haven't learned how to replace the guard from cross side.
Yeah.
Well, if this guy happens to be a guy that holds really well across the
side, and that's where he works his game from.
Man, you're a big trouble.
Yeah.
You're a big trouble.
And it all seems so unpredictable too at those earlier stages, because you don't know
where your holes are.
I mean, you might know some, but you don't know.
Yeah.
You know, you haven't seen enough of the game.
And you haven't been in enough situations where you can kind of stay calm and, you know,
all the stuff.
So to your point where you say you got to be familiar with the unfamiliar kind of thing.
Remember when Majeed started just baseball bat choking everyone?
Yeah.
How was Lea's?
He's live weird setups.
And he would let people pass his guard and then he'd be thinking, oh, I'm about to
score some points on the and boom, they're getting tapped out.
Yeah.
But it was so foreign that, okay.
So he went the two real, real famous ones at the time when he exploded on the
scene with these was.
He was Clark and Zach.
Yeah.
Back to the two matches and one of them Zach Maxwell mounted in Armbar.
No, hasn't been the Armbar meanwhile baseball, but, yeah, choke is in.
No, but who cares?
Because really that rule could not, not rule, but that situation up kind of applies.
If you have someone in Armbar, I don't care.
You should be.
Yep.
I got the armbar to break your arm.
He's going for the arm, but he can't lean back because the baseball, that
choke is in and he's like, he got a tap.
Yeah.
And then I think he was Clark where he could have been the other way around, but
either way, Clark has a, was Zach was going to block it.
I was at these matches, weren't I?
I know I was.
Yeah, I wasn't.
I was there by.
So the videos, but yeah, the kind where Clark was like, I know this choke, I'm in
mount or I'm in this good position.
I know that this choke doesn't work.
It simply doesn't work because I have the advantage and he gets choked unconscious because
he doesn't tap.
Sure, it might hurt.
And that is the case for a lot of the, a lot of jokes where it's like, sure, this
hurt.
It's not a choke.
No, a good one doesn't even hurt.
Yeah, it's a good choke.
It's just in.
Yeah.
So what we're talking about there is a guy named Mijid.
What's Mijid's last name?
He's.
Yeah, that's right.
And he came on to the scene.
We'll say.
Sure.
With, well, this is what's interesting about this is the baseball bat choke is not a new
choke.
It's not a domain that people were unfamiliar with.
It's just that he was doing it really, really well with really good setups that people,
that's what, that's the part that people weren't expecting.
It was a really good setup.
They were really good setups of people weren't expecting.
And so he'd let people pass their guard or his guard.
But he had the choke in.
They'd get across side and get mounted or whatever.
Go for arm locks and they're tapping because they weren't expecting it.
Yeah.
And even if those, you know, I mean, Zach Maxwell and Clark Gracie, just phenomenal competitors
Black belt, I mean, been training their whole lives, both of them got caught by that.
Yeah, he's.
Yeah, the legitimacy of like the way that whole thing went down was just so astounding.
Like just like how you say, like Clark?
Yeah.
But Clark has been winning stuff from day one.
That's when it's in.
Yeah.
And yeah, it's just crazy, but it just shows, you know, where you can, you can be that good.
You get just that one teeny tiny window of familiarity.
Yeah, that's what they got creeps in there.
And he's familiar, but he'll just have his way.
And then what was interesting is as people started knowing that that's what he's going
to go for.
But he'd still get it.
Yeah.
And actually, and I trained with him before, he had just, you know, a few times or whatever.
And he didn't do that to me.
And I was like, hey, you know, like, well, I didn't have some why didn't do it to me.
But I was like, do people, you know, like, does everyone ask you to teach them or
do he's like, you know what, people don't, I don't even really talk about anymore because
I've become so well known for that move that it becomes, it became less a part of my life.
Yeah.
It could happen to where, okay, now once you go, okay, it goes through a phase of, hey,
I wasn't expecting that.
And it worked because I wasn't expecting it.
Then it goes like, hey, I was expecting it, but it still worked.
But then it gets to a point where people are just going, I'm not going to do it.
Like, oh, if he grabs my collar, I need to go.
It totally different direction. I need to not do anything, need to back out whatever.
And then it becomes where, like you said, it's now it's losing some of its effectiveness
because everyone is expecting that to be the move that you do.
That's what happened with the 100% like where there'd be like, I don't care what position
I mean, I don't care what position I have to give up.
It's just do not get into that leglock position.
It's like, you could tell with some of his matches, I was like, oh, yeah, she did.
I get it.
You know, I get it, but you have that is how it goes.
But the chaos thing, I think he should compete more.
Yes, that should compete more.
For sure. But what I'm saying is compete in Gigiitsu for sure, but do some smokers, do some
mojitai, do some wrestling matches, do some sombo turn, you know, get out there, do some different
competitions and then on top of all that, man, do some scenario based training.
You know, do some self defense based training at the Academy where somebody pulls out the
the knife, the fake knife, whatever, what do they call the fake knife and like, let's make
sure we know how to deal with that.
Let's make sure we know how to deal with the baseball bat.
Like, what are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
Because baseball bat, you know what you do with the baseball bat, close the distance.
Yeah.
You know, hey, that's not even really a game changer as long as you know what you're doing.
Knife, close the distance with a knife and now you're getting stabbed.
Yes.
So, you got to make distance.
Yeah.
And again, man, that just that familiarity, like, once you go through it, that's like almost
night and day and end of itself.
Once you've seen it, if you've never seen it, if you've seen it once, like, that first
step is night and day.
So, that's good that he went through this.
Really?
Yeah.
And what's good, the other good, psychologically, you know, do you recognize psychologically,
he recognized that he lost his mind?
I got what he said.
He said, uh, he did fear.
Yeah, I got fear.
Oh, is it?
In one match, I completely lost focus and control of my mind.
So, once you, that's just, and what you just said, when you get that, when you experience
that, that's a good thing to experience because then you learn to recognize that you're
losing control and you're losing your mind and you're going to, when you realize that, it
allows you to start monitoring it.
Yeah.
You've never been to, because there's people that are listening to this right now that have
never lost their mind before.
They've never been overwhelmed by something.
And just not knowing what to do, never been frozen.
You've never been frozen with fear.
Frozen with fear.
If you've never felt your fight or flight thing engaged, then when it happens, you won't
know what it is.
Yeah.
You want to know what it is.
So that way when it happens, you can go, okay, know what's happening right here.
Yeah.
I'm going to make this, I'm going to make this decision.
And how you're saying, when you train boxing or, um, um, boxing, yeah, yeah, and MMA.
So when you get hit in the face, when we talked about this before, when you get hit in the
face, then you have it really been hit in the face before.
Like, that's a, it'll throw you off.
Oh, yeah.
That's just to put really mildly it'll throw you off.
So especially, yeah, you're right, because when you see someone get punched in the face
and moving it, it seems like it doesn't really face in that match and they keep going.
If that's what your expect is going to happen when you get punched in the face,
that's the wrong idea.
Yeah.
Because what's going to, if you've never been punched in the face before when you get punched,
it's a little shocker.
Yeah.
And there's pain and your eyes get blurry and you're, you get a little flash.
I mean, there's a lot of things that go on when you get punched in the face.
Once you get used to it, you're like, you can move right through it.
Exactly.
But if you're not used to it, it's a problem.
Yeah.
Fully.
And it's, that's another one.
It's night and day when a guy has been hit in the face a bunch of times and is used
to it and a guy who's not used to it.
Because, you know, like, you can hit a guy in a face or get hit in the face and they'll
be like, I'm done.
Like, I didn't really expect this encounter or this experience.
You don't want to get it.
And then, oh, they guys, they'll get hit in the face.
Break their nose, break their jaw, all this stuff and they're keep fighting.
You know, it's like, dang.
So that night in a situation, if you're not used to it, which is essentially the same
thing you went through.
This guy went wild.
He wasn't ready for this overwhelming experience and he losses my instinctive.
Yeah.
So you can hit in the face.
Like, I'm regret punching me in my face.
So hard.
I don't know if he was mad or just regretting.
Great.
James fires it off.
He punched me right between the eyes.
Thought he broke my face.
And it was the kind where it was a timing thing too, where I came in.
I was shooting in and right before a level change or whatever, he just connected and
was like, boom.
And I remember thinking, because I just kept going.
And I remember thinking, dang, I'm glad I was kind of used to getting hit in the face.
That would have kind of, the very least paused me for a long time, like, didn't you?
But I'm thinking, when you imagine just that kind of chaos and sensation that'll just stop
you.
But once you're used to it, you're good.
And this is a good point to bring up with just with any kind of training at like leadership
training, right?
When you have leaders that haven't been put in certain situations before, that's why I
actually love front.
We do role playing exercises with people.
And you put people in situations.
The first time you put them in situations like dealing with a hostile subordinate that
doesn't want to do the plan.
The first time they get put in that scenario, they just, they just fall apart.
I told you to do it in here.
Okay, let's replay that.
By the third time you're doing it, already handling the job, handling the scenario infinitely
better, infinitely better than they did the first time.
So it's the same with everything in life, like the exposure to it and the rehearsal
of it gives you such a massive advantage that to not rehearse and to not train is, it's
actually sad.
And that's actually, the National Enfronts are great example because that's why we're
in business because people don't even know that they should be doing this.
And to go to a company that has 50, 100, 150, 200 leaders that are leading teams and they
have no leadership training.
And therefore we're all surprised when the leader doesn't get the teams to do what they're
supposed to do.
Who taught him how to lead?
Because you just don't show, you just don't show up to work, no one how to lead.
No, you actually get trained to lead.
Yeah, all these unfamiliar micro scenarios happen in.
That's one of the, that's one of the, like, the muster we do these little drills at the
muster.
And you could see, people are overwhelmed with the knowledge that they gained from two
or three little scenarios that we put in front of them.
And these are common scenarios that happen all the time.
But when you watch seasoned business leaders, trying to handle a scenario that they haven't
seen before.
Now they might have seen it before, but they never actually had to deal with it.
The first time they try to deal with it, they fall apart.
And it's real, I've been, it takes like 10 seconds before you go, okay, let's just stop.
Because you've already got this guy mad at you.
Well, let's try this again.
Because we haven't been through this situation before.
They never been punched in the face before.
Yeah.
And that's the problem.
Don't let it happen.
Get punched in the face a few times.
Yeah.
Just you be.
You can do this.
It's kind of like, remember when we were kids, there was this, this is, you know, like,
really chewing gum.
Yeah.
And then the little packs that for five of them, they're just small little thing.
And you, you know, you grab one and this one kind of stick in now, you can say, hey, you
know, do you want one off of one of your friends.
So it was my brother.
And he did, long story, but he was crying from something else who you said.
And he was like crying.
And oh, by the way, you know, he offered me some gum.
I grabbed the gum.
And then he was like, oh, those mouse traps.
Yeah.
And it slaps you and kind of hurts with your little kitty anyway.
And it snaps off.
I'm like, dang, I never, you know, I see he's laughing.
You cry from something else.
And then he's laughing.
And cheer them up, whatever.
Double leg.
He's not there for, well, actually, which would have made the double leg even better.
Nonetheless, I'd never seen that before.
Now someone offers me riggedly gum.
I'm aware.
I'm ready for that mouse trap.
It may be the mouse trap, maybe not.
Well, you're grabbing by the side.
I'm driving by the side exactly right.
Let's learn.
Yeah, exactly right.
I'll have to endure that.
And one more minute.
Life is no different.
Next question.
I'm a chef in a large operation kitchen.
I'm second in command overseeing a large kitchen staff in part of a five-person management
team overseeing the entire account.
Recently, during my last review, I was giving some advice by my boss and his boss.
I'm unsure about my last two annual reviews have gone very well.
And I'm on the rise in the company.
However, they said, if it was important for me to get or heat the however, they said,
it was important for me to give up some of my kitchen dog mentality and work to showcase my artistic
side and embrace more of a star role in the spotlight.
Get out of the kitchen a bit more.
Get more more gain more exposure specifically with their high profile clients.
While I appreciate their sentiment and respect their big management skills, their style
isn't one I strive to emulate or feel would work for me and the way I operate.
I've always approached my work as more of a craft than an art and I've always like being a trench dog
with my team.
My team responds to it and I get results for the business and I feel the results should speak for them
and I feel the results are not.
It is propelled my career rapidly thus far.
So why would I want to change and be something I'm not?
Should I heat their advice or stick to what I do best?
Keep getting after it on my terms.
What are those questions?
That's just funny how that last statement is framed.
Should I stick to what I do best and keep getting after it?
As if to say if you say no you should not stick to what you do best.
You should not get after it.
That's the frame there and actually this guy I answered the question real
Tercely I think this came through Facebook messages that I said.
Sounds like you found a comfortable little zone for yourself and you want to stay in there.
Right little cold butter response and he's like,
I knew it.
Because as we know in the comfort zone there's no growth in the comfort zone.
So it's interesting this guy is actually getting some good solid and straightforward advice from up the chain of command.
Plus I think if they have him as more of a personality than the restaurant will do better and they're trying to build their reputation and your reputation at the same time.
And that seems pretty reasonable to me right?
Real familiar with the restaurant business but I'm familiar enough to know if you've got a good reputation with the staff that works at the restaurant.
It brings in more people like there's no doubt about it.
The relationship just like any other business.
The relationships that you build with the customers strengthens them strengthens that relationship and makes them want to come back for more right?
That's the way it works.
And so for them to say to you, hey man, hey, you know you're a good cook. We get that. We need a little bit more. We want a little bit more.
Chef.
We need somebody that has, yeah chef.
You're good chef.
Yeah, yeah, sorry. You're a good chef.
Well actually, what I think I might have actually purposely said that.
Like hey, you're doing a good job in the kitchen as a cook.
We don't need someone that's just cooking the food. We need a chef with a reputation with a personality, right?
There's a difference there, right?
So it was called out for a reason.
Gotcha.
He's happy and you can see like kitchen dog.
Yeah, he's proud of that, right?
And I get that man.
I get that.
I get that. Like you're one of the boys.
You're back in the grind.
Well let me ask you this.
Or let me make this statement.
Guess what you have to do is a seal.
As a seal leader, guess what you have to do?
You have to build relationships.
You have to make your commanding officer trust you.
You have to build relationships with the army.
You have to build relationships through the Marine Corps.
You have to in order to do that.
You have to like raise your, you have to call a little bit of attention to yourself
and raise your hand and say, hey, this is who I am.
You have to take you, this is who I am.
You have to actually have to step into the spotlight a little bit
so that you can let people know who you are because if people don't know who you are,
how do you have a relationship with him and if you don't have a relationship with people
how can they trust you?
So, so that's part of it.
Right. That's part of what they're asking you to do.
Now, in all seriousness, if you really don't want to do it,
well then you can keep being the guy that's in the back and guess what?
You're going to be mad in six months when some other chef gets hired
for a different chef than all of a sudden he's out making friends with everyone.
He gets promoted and why do you get promoted?
Well, look at what the guy's doing.
But he's not as good as, he's not as good as a cook as I am.
Guess what? They don't really care.
Being making the food is only part of what they want you to do.
Just like being a seal, doing the doing missions is only part of what you need to do to do the mission.
You can't just be tactically sound. You've got to have the relationship built
so you can work in the battle space that's owned by a conventional commander.
You've got to have the relationship that you can get your missions approved
up the chain of command on the special operation side.
How do you do that? You build.
You go out. You talk to people. You get out of your comfort zone.
So weird thing, you know, I'm kind of anti-social, right?
Like, if you don't know me, we're not going to have a conversation.
You know, like, we're not having a conversation.
I'm not walking up and talking to you. If I don't know you, I'm not walking up and saying,
hi to you. It's not happening. It's not my personality.
If you say hi to me, I'll say hi. I'm not disrespectful.
I'm not rude, but I'm not looking to have a bunch of conversations with people.
And so that's known to me.
But that's not okay for the business side of my life, which is, hey, I got to talk to people.
I got to talk to people. I got to build relationships.
I got to had to know my commanding officer.
Had to know the commenter. Had to know the conventional
Battalion commander. Had to know the brigade commander.
Had to build relationships. Could I just talk about
war with the brigade commander?
Well, I could, but what's more powerful that I talk about war.
And I talk about where I'm from or where he's from or what, you know,
other things? Yes, because I want to build a relationship. Why?
Because I'm trying to build trust. Why?
Because I wanted to allow me to go out there and do things in his
battle space.
So that's what they're asking me. They're asking you to step out of your comfort zone.
It doesn't need to become your primary focus. No.
Should you try and step out of the comfort zone?
If you want to grow, if you want to have more opportunity,
I would give it a try.
If not, you know, like I said, if you hate it, and you feel like you're not being true to your true self,
that's okay. Maybe your true self is meant to be the one that's back, not getting promoted.
Yeah.
They need somebody to do that.
If it's not you, it might be somebody else.
Yeah.
So another one of those tough questions where people, you know, hit me with like,
should I just be, should be loyal to myself.
Because the obvious, like,
I think the answer that everyone wants to hear is like, yeah, dude, most important thing is you've got to be loyal to yourself.
That's the most important thing.
Yeah.
Okay.
If that's what your priority is, then that's the most important thing.
But guess what?
Who does a who can take care of the other kitchen dogs that respect you so much?
Who can take a better care of them than you can?
Because if you get promoted, if you don't get promoted and and
Johnny glamour boy gets promoted, because he likes to go out and
push moves to the clients and now he gets promoted and yours.
And now who's going to take care of the kitchen dogs on his, on his time, right?
Not him.
He doesn't care.
He's got he got promoted, not for taking care of his guys.
You got promoted because he smooths the clients.
Yeah.
And play the game a little bit.
It's weird when you're explaining that and it's like,
it makes complete sense.
I'm thinking of it in terms of like being a, I don't know.
I guess it applies to any relationship you have.
Like let's say, okay, you have a wife, right?
You're buried, whatever.
And so your wife wants to go to hypothetically.
Wife wants to go to ananovermott.
You're like, I don't like vermott.
You know, go to vermott.
But you're wife say, hey, I want you to come because I like spending time with you and
all this stuff.
And as a husband, you're like, hey, I like spending time with you too.
Why can't we do something that I specifically like to do?
And it has to do so a lot of times with like maybe you're ice friends with the
inlaw.
So I don't want to hang with you, but I want to hang with them and the wife wants to hang with you
with the friends and all this stuff or whatever.
But a lot of the time, in my case, might have been me just sticking in my little comfort zone.
You know, like the people that I like to hang out with, there's like set stuff that I know they're
into and I know they like to talk about it and all this stuff.
And I'm essentially rejecting being open to new or other stuff.
You know, that's kind of like a situation.
But in a way, I'm kind of doing what this, what this guy's implying where it's like,
I'm going to say to myself, my interest and all this stuff, I love my wife 100%.
That has nothing to do with it.
Vermont has nothing to do with me and my wife, you know.
But why shouldn't I step outside of my comfort zone?
And, you know, try to accommodate her wishes in this way.
It's not a maker breaker relationship enough like that.
But if I do that, if I just exercise the ability to be open, I become more valuable of a husband,
more valuable, I offer more value in the relationship and as a person.
So, same exact thing when you're explaining this, when this guy's explaining where he's
awesome in the as a chef in the back, doing the, you know, doing his deal, doing what he does best.
So, but they, and this guy see it, he's gonna be very see it, obviously,
where they're like, hey, we want you to do this more stuff even because you're awesome in men.
Imagine if you had this, this more stuff, you know,
a valuable you would be as a XYZ, whatever the position is in this case is a chef.
And to reject that is essentially to say, you know what, I don't want to be more valuable as a chef.
Or I don't want to be more valuable as a husband.
I prefer to stick with my current value.
I don't want to upgrade.
There you go.
I refuse to upgrade.
Some stain.
True to myself.
Just saying.
Anyway, next question.
I mean, can you cross the line and get to a point where you make yourself sick?
Because you've done, yeah, then you've gone too far.
That's, you know, like, I got me a leadership, like, yeah, if you become just a,
disgusting, sick event, then that's what?
That's not good.
Yeah.
So I'm not talking about that.
I'm not talking about leaving your values and abandoning your values.
That's not what I'm talking about.
Right.
Talking about playing the game a little bit.
There's a big difference.
Step up to the comfort zone.
Yeah.
Play the game a little bit.
At the very least, do it with the open mind.
See, I like it.
What if you were like, you got real good at that?
You know, like public speaking, for example, where I'm no exception.
A lot of people don't like public speaking.
Even though they might have a lot to say or whatever, you know, like some people like
they're smart, but I don't want to get up on state and nothing like that.
That's dumb.
I'm not a star.
I don't want to limelight on me and all this stuff.
They do one time and they offer like just so much value doing it.
And then they get used to it.
Then all of a sudden they kind of like it.
You know, it could be one of those deals.
Could be.
You never know.
So you try it.
Next question.
Two of my bosses have told me I don't like Jocco.
Interesting.
Got that.
Without giving any valid reasons, their ego is in the way.
How do I flank them to help them see the path?
My belief is that they're afraid of the truth and they're afraid of the truth.
They see an extreme ownership.
Okay.
So, yeah, I mean clearly, you go could be a problem here as a leader.
You know, who wants to constantly be compared to some other leader?
Right.
You know, if you were teaching a Jocco, the way that the way that Dean teaches this, you know,
that would make you mad after all.
So that could be part of the problem.
Oh, that's definitely.
That's that's a way up there on the list of possible things.
Could be the military flavor, right?
Some people don't like the military flavor thing.
So that's that's okay.
It's.
Can turn some people off.
They don't want to hear about it.
That's fine.
The reality is.
It's.
But here's the reality of the situation.
Okay.
What is there to not like about the things that I talk about, right?
So let's say, you know what, I don't like people taking ownership.
I want everyone to make excuses and play each other, right?
It doesn't even make sense.
You know, instead of, you know, I don't want to hear about this cover move.
I want everyone to ignore each other and get more.
You're about themselves, right?
Like that that that makes no sense whatsoever.
You know, if, if keeping things simple, I don't want to, hey, look, I don't want to keep things simple.
I want everything to be so complicated.
But no one knows what's going on, right?
Like, look, these things that they make note, there's no human being.
No one in a leadership position.
That would want everyone or that would that would go against what these simple principles.
So.
How do you fix it then, right?
What's the problem?
Well, one, here's a couple, and actually this was a Twitter thing.
And a bunch of people gave great responses on Twitter after I kind of highlighted it.
One, one of them, and my, my actual responses like, hey, just don't, you know, stop using my name.
You know, stop saying, well, joculous it because you can imagine how I'm knowing that much.
Oh, well, joculous in, you know, when you're in a leadership position, you know, it's like.
That's going to really great on somebody.
So, so, so throw that out the window.
Don't pit it as me, jocco against what your boss is saying, no, don't do that.
You've set up an adversarial relationship with them.
And you've set up an adversarial relationship with me.
And I've never even met these people before.
I don't even know who they are even know what business they're in.
But what you've done by constantly harping on it is you've pissed them off.
And now they're saying, dude, quit talking about jocco.
We don't care because also the way that he's, just the way he's being offensive in approaching these things.
And watching these things means that he has a little more listening and growing to do.
Because if you really want to approach your boss or, you know, he asked about flanking his boss.
Well, the way you flank someone isn't going, hey, the way jocco is such you should do this.
Like, no, that's not good.
So let the principles work on another, another person pointed out, you know,
Hey, don't, hey, stop trying to impose your things on them.
Like, just take extreme ownership.
That's how you step up and start leading. You do your thing. You perform well.
Quit talking, quit trying to force these things down people's throat and give them space.
Give them room.
And then they'll recognize that you're doing a good job.
If you label it with something that you know, they don't like.
Well, then they're not going to like it. No matter what you do, no matter what you do.
That's going to be problematic.
Don't beludge them with with, well, you know, I, this is blah, blah, blah.
No, don't do that.
Take, let, but you're ego in check. How's that sound?
Put your ego in check a little bit.
Make the ideas that you're talking about, their ideas.
Get them to talk about ownership.
You know, get them, maybe they call it something else.
Other than extreme ownership.
Maybe they call it, you know, personal accountability.
Okay, awesome. That's a great, yeah. I really like that.
I really like what you've come up with, boss. I'm in with that.
Oh, well, now they're in the game.
And they don't realize that you're talking about the same thing.
That's fine.
Don't, they don't ever have to realize that.
They don't ever have to realize that.
So, I mean, there's some people, there's some people that don't like,
even in the teams, there's people that like, they didn't like me.
Didn't matter, didn't matter where what the, the principle was,
didn't make, oh, that's the law.
It's like, no.
Like, hey, just, just don't, don't attach my name to it.
Yeah. And go and do, be a good leader. How's that?
So, those are some things.
I think if you live, live the principles, act on the principles,
no one's going to be mad at you for taking ownership
and responsibility of what you're doing.
Unless you say, oh, you look how I took ownership of that.
Well, then you might paint yourself into a corner with it.
They weren't stupid.
Or they end up not accepting what you're doing.
Yeah.
And they'll get mad at you for stepping on their toes, of course.
And it is also, as you do this, as you take ownership,
don't rub their noses in it.
You give them credit. How hard is that?
You know, you've come up with a pro solution to problem,
say, hey, no, actually, I got this idea from something like,
oh, you do it.
Really?
Right?
That's how you, that's how you flank them.
Hey, it took ownership of this problem.
Oh, really?
Oh, you took all the, you're a ghost streamer.
You know, I don't want to say that.
Don't say that.
You know, it's a K-Boss.
I wanted to make sure this got done correctly.
I was watching the way you did.
Dobba, bo, bo, bo, bo.
You go from there.
Yeah.
Give them the idea.
You know, makes sense.
is multiple repetitions of what you guys say.
Yeah, yeah.
And didn't pick up the vibe, which is like, hey, I'm dealing with someone
with a big ego and they're not going to take well to me talking about this
other guys leadership style.
Do you, you don't want to be compared to some other leader if you're in
leadership position?
Yeah.
And I'm also, this kind of the same thing, but a little bit different.
The, that thinking about that type of scenario, man, that's the worst.
That's like as a boss, I would think that that'd be really bad.
Because okay, so here's his situation.
So I make videos sometimes.
Right.
And so let's say I am, and actually this is an actual thing that actually
happened where, okay, so I'm in this video for this, we'll say client.
And, classic, okay, you know, they look at it and it's typical, you know, they'll have
some input, maybe some information they want to add or take or change or whatever.
And then this guy said, oh yeah, I'm not sure about this part.
I showed it to my wife and she said, you know, XYZ and XYZ and I'm thinking, okay, I get it,
like okay, you showed it to people that understand, but I was like, wait, wait, wait.
So this is a video I made for you and your deal, you know, kind of thing.
And you went and showed your wife and then now she has some kind of input.
She's not part of this deal, you know?
And now you're like sighting your wife's critique and like all this stuff.
And it does make sense by the way, as far as what we've discussed and all this stuff, right?
So the wife is kind of now I kind of have this kind of disdain for the wife.
I don't know the wife at all, by the way.
So I'm like, I'm just not feeling the wife anymore.
You go got the way.
You know, you're a little bit in it and it's natural is what I'm saying where it's kind
of like, I thought we were doing this video kind of together and I'll do this for you
and you give me the input and we're not, you involved your wife in it who threw the whole
thing off because she's not even part of this little thing.
Right.
It's really hard to put your ego in check.
It's really hard to put your ego in check and actually listen to what the critique points
are.
It's hard for anyone to do that.
And so when it happens, you have to go, okay, that's my ego and you need to put it
aside.
Yeah.
So consider this situation.
If the guy would have just said, don't say I showed it to my wife and she said this.
Don't say if he would have said, well, I was thinking about this, which is what the wife
said, you know, in that whatever.
I was thinking about this, whether it would have got delivered way better, way easier,
same thing with your situation if someone's saying, I don't know, let's say, for example,
it's a fireman, it's a fireman.
And you know, the boss is saying, hey, we should do this and do that and then this guy
just, I'll be saying, well, Jocco said, boss is like, who the hell is Jocco?
I don't remember hiring Jocco, who is this guy?
And what's he talking about cool, but Jocco has no saying this department.
It's me and it's you, it's the team, you know, the team that we've worked with kind of
thing and that's kind of the feeling.
So yeah, I'm in.
Don't say Jocco.
Yeah, I don't need to credit.
Not all.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Next question, Jocco, please explain how working harder for an incompetent superior
helps oneself.
I feel like screw them in whatever lightning bolt of luck they were struck by it again in
their position.
That kind of like screw them in the horse they rode in.
Yeah, that is.
No, he's saying screw them in.
They're, they're in their position of superior because they got lucky.
Yeah, yeah, I didn't get lucky.
Well, that's true.
Yeah.
And, you know, here's the answer that is like, okay, so what do you can do then?
Okay, what do you can do then?
You're going to sit around and wait for your own bolt of lightning of luck to hit you.
Is that what you're going to do?
I don't recommend that.
Instead, I recommend that you step up and yes, you do work harder.
And you do the best possible job that you can do and you take some pride in what you're
doing and how you're doing it.
And you do it better than they could not to rub their nose into it, not to prove that you
can do a better, but out of professionalism.
That's why you do it.
Now, one outcome that can come from that is they get credit for your work and that makes
you all mad.
No, that's actually good because if they get credit for your work, that's what works going
well, they're going to get promoted.
And they get the recognition.
Okay, that's fine.
But they know where the actual credit goes, even if they don't give it to you, even if
they don't give it to you, they know it, even if they have a person who doesn't even realize
that you're like, oh, wow, I did all that work and he's taken all the credit for.
They don't even know that I made this happen or he doesn't even know that he's that I made
this happen.
No, they know.
So as long as you can keep your ego in check and you can let them have the credit eventually,
they get promoted.
The team's doing well.
You'll look good.
You'll get promoted.
Your life is easy.
Your gaining experience.
You've got a good reputation.
Everything is going in your direction.
And by the way, when that incompetent person does get promoted, who do they usually recommend
that fills their spot?
You, because you're the one that got them promoted.
They're stoked on that.
Now you become a superstar.
That's great.
Eventually they're going to get found out by the way.
Someone incompetency can't be hidden forever.
And eventually someone says, wait a second, you didn't even know how to do this.
That was echo Charles.
That was doing this this whole time.
Yeah?
Okay.
Okay, well, we're going to promote echo.
You're out of here.
That'll happen.
And when that happens, when that incompetency gets found out, then you will get the recognition
you deserve, because people said, I don't know, that wasn't Jocco doing all this stuff.
This was echo.
There you go.
Oh, Jocco, you're done.
So that's something to happen.
Or another outcome that can happen is that they give you the credit that you're
due, which is great.
And you still get promoted.
And you may get promoted above them, which is fine, too.
And, or they might get promoted, which is fine, stop worrying about it.
So those two things, if you do a good job, eventually something good is going to come out
of it.
They get whether it's you both get promoted, whether it's they get promoted above you, whether
it's you get promoted above them.
It doesn't matter.
All those outcomes, or maybe it's just the team continues to do well.
And your job is stress free and you continue to perform.
And the division that you're in grows and you get a chance to promote, because everyone's
getting promoted, it's like, oh, good.
All good stuff.
Or you can be angry and you can be frustrated and you can blame your own bad luck and
you can not work hard and you can not do a good job and you can be recognized as a slacker
or you can get blamed by the incompetent boss when things do fall short.
Because that's what the incompetent boss does.
He doesn't step up and say, go ownership of it.
He says, no, you know what?
I would have done a better job, but Echo was slacking.
That's the problem.
Now Echo gets fired.
And guess what?
Someone, we hire someone else to come in and they start doing a good job.
The boss is still going to look good and still get promoted, just that you lost your
job.
And by the way, you lost your job with a bad reputation.
Now you can't even get a recommendation for a new job.
Where you lose?
That's what's going to happen.
So step up, do your best.
It'll pay off in the long run.
Yeah.
It's funny how like it's one of those things where if you can just flip the switch and
see that, just that one, you think?
And it's funny though, too, the way those questions are framed, you know, what they
want to hear is like, no, you know, what if you got an incompetent boss, you don't help
them out, you've got a bird.
Yeah.
That's what you do.
That's what people want to hear.
But it's the easy answer and it's not the smart answer.
And it's a short term answer, not a long term answer.
Make your boss look great.
How's that?
That's my goal.
I want to make my boss look great.
There was a little tell in the question too.
I'm no expert.
Obviously, but I'm like, both of luck.
Yeah.
So you know the whole deal.
And this is even, you can be a person who recognize this.
Like people who are bitter, I'm not saying the asker of this question is bad.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying this is an external scenario.
But you know, if you get a bitter person who's just being in life, maybe not doing it
as well in life as they had, you know, had hoped or whatever, you'll probably realize
you'll probably encounter them from time to time.
No more.
Saying how the guy who is successful is lucky.
They're lucky.
They had a given to them, like all this, all this other stuff.
Me, I'm not lucky with whatever.
But it's always the successful guy.
It's lucky.
Always.
Yeah, they attribute other people's success to luck.
So they're lightning bolt of luck and screw them, you know, kind of thing.
Just that is indicative.
I'm not saying it is.
I'm not saying it is or isn't as far as this particular person.
But it tends to be like that.
And again, like that, just that switch.
If you can turn on the switch and just look at it, just like how you said, it's not intuitive.
I get it, man.
Because it's like, I was in that situation where like literally I was doing the work.
So many think about this.
You just said you're in this situation.
Almost everybody has been in this situation.
And here's the difference.
If you don't flip that switch and you're in this situation, your whole life goes down
in the other direction.
Yeah.
That's the real problem.
That's why you meet people.
You know, this is a thing I think about a lot.
You know how you know people in your life, their bad asses.
But they, but they're not going anywhere.
Like you look at it and you go, man, this kind of smarter than me.
And a better athlete than me and a better speaker than me.
But they're not going anywhere.
And you know why it's because at some point in their life instead of saying, oh, wow, that
guy's lucky.
That's what they do.
At some point in their life instead of saying, hey, that person worked to get in that
situation and I should do the same.
Is that a saying that?
They say, oh, that person got lucky.
Yeah.
That's why they're there.
And I'm down here.
Yeah.
You better make them.
Yeah, you can't make the upward climb.
If you don't say, you know what, hey, that person might be a little luck there.
But guess what, they're obviously working hard.
They're obviously doing something right because I'm down here and they're up there.
How do I get up there?
Yeah.
The answer to get up there is not by tearing them down.
The answer to get up there is by working hard.
Make them look good.
That line you said, so what?
And so what are you going to do about it?
Yeah, what are you going to do about it?
That's the switch right there.
Because I mean, you do with it with kids.
I've seen some young kids and, you know, same thing like, oh, this is what it is or this
happened or whatever spilled milk out of no whatever.
And, you know, the kids crying.
That's all this stuff.
It's like, okay.
So what are you going to do about it?
So you can cry.
You totally can.
And you can complain about how junk that is that the milk, that spill to your toy
broker, whatever the situation.
Yeah, because that's all truth.
Absolutely true.
And good.
You can cry whatever.
You're going to do about it.
Then, okay, then that's what it's going to be.
And that's all it's going to be.
You're going to continue to cry.
And you're probably going to continue to cry next time it happens to or you clean up the milk,
you fix your toy, whatever, you know, whatever.
What are you going to do about it?
That's the whole thing, you know?
It's interesting to you.
There's like a just a known, the right answer seems really obvious when we talk about it
right now.
But not many people see that right answer.
No.
Most people want to just be mad at their boss and be frustrated and undermine them.
And not work hard so that they don't get any shine on them.
So, okay, great.
That's you putting yourself on that barrel, too.
Don't do it.
Just crazy.
Yeah.
It's good.
Actuation say it's crazy.
It's, it makes sense.
I mean, I felt that before.
100%.
Yeah.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
Next question.
Can you be default aggressive and relaxed in jujitsu?
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, this seems like two opposing things that you can't do at the same time, but the
actual fact is yes, you can and you should.
So you want your maneuvers to be aggressive, but you don't want to be using a bunch
of strength to execute the maneuvers, right?
You want to aggressively escape your opponent's position before your opponent gets settled.
Therefore, you don't have to use strength.
You can use relax it.
You can relax.
And you can be proactive, same thing with defending a submission attempt.
You want to defend that submission attempt aggressively before this submission attempt gets
settled in.
You want to move aggressively.
Again, I'm not talking about strength and spashing.
I'm talking about moving aggressively before your opponent moves and get ahead of them on
their U-loop.
When you get ahead of them on their U-loop, they're going to have issues with you.
And so yeah, absolutely.
You can be default aggressive and at the same time you can be relaxed and you should
that should be your goal.
Do you sometimes have to use strength in Gjitsu?
Yes, you do.
Sometimes you've got to power out of something.
Why did the reason you had to power out of something is because you were too late because
you weren't moving aggressively enough.
You weren't moving quickly enough.
Because then you got to power out of something and claw those hands, claw that guillotine off
your neck.
Do you know what I'm saying?
You're telling someone they're clawing your fingers away from their neck?
Yes.
So when that happens, that person was late.
And now they're clawing the resorting to strength and resorting to panic, clawing
at your fingers.
So no, usually it doesn't even matter.
They can claw.
It doesn't matter.
Good.
No.
I like that sense of panic.
But I feel when they're clawing.
Yeah, I'm sure you do.
You really seem like you like it a lot.
So that's what it is.
And by the way, this is true in life as well.
You do like if you are maneuvering correctly, correctly as a leader, you don't have to
get aggressive at people because they're doing what they're supposed to be doing.
You don't have to be.
You shouldn't have to yell.
If you have to yell as a boss, guess what?
Your intent wasn't followed.
Your plan wasn't understood.
There's so many mistakes that you made if you're yelling as a leader.
Do you never have to yell?
Yeah, certainly, sometimes you can yell because you got to make sure you get that emotional
point across sometimes, you got to make sure that someone really likes someone doesn't seem
to realize that they may just severe enough that they're warned to yelling and therefore
it doesn't matter to them because they're dad yelling in their whole life.
So if you're not yelling, they don't get it.
So can you can you run to that?
Problem occasionally.
Occasionally, very occasionally.
Very rarely should you run into that situation because if you're doing the right job being
default, aggressive as a leader, you should be in situations where you never have to yell
because your people understand what it is that they're supposed to be doing.
They understand why they're supposed to be doing it.
They understand what the plan is.
They understand what the contingencies were.
They understand what the intent that you had was.
They understand this way that this fits strategically into the situation.
They understand all those things and if they understand all those things, then they're
going to do the right thing.
And if they don't, if they understand all those things and they still do something that doesn't
make sense, well, maybe they do deserve to yell that.
But again, all the first person I check is myself.
And say, well, obviously, I'd make this clear enough.
So yes, relax harder.
So yelling is to leading as using strength is to do you get to.
So what?
You gotta do it everyone.
So if you lay, maybe you lacked on your technique earlier, you gotta make a little
end.
But think about this.
You hurt your stamina.
Yeah, you're straight.
And with your little piece of stuff.
When I yell at you, because something went wrong and you're my subordinate, when
I yell at you, I pay a little price for that, too.
Because it better be important.
And I better really think about it, because I didn't do anything to build our relationship
and a positive manner by yelling at you.
Didn't do anything.
Just like you didn't improve your G2 technique or knowledge.
Or really, I guess you improved your situation for a moment, right?
Because you escaped.
But now you're more tired.
If I yell that you to do something and you did it, because you were like, okay, well, fine.
I don't want to yell that anymore.
So I'm just going to do this thing that you don't want to do.
That's temporary fix.
It's temporary fix.
Yeah, you know how like JPL say, aggressive.
Is it, or default aggressive?
Is it towards people?
It's towards making things happen.
So like, so did you just the same thing?
So it's like, I don't aggressively.
Like, it's in a way.
You kind of can narrow it down to the timing thing.
It's like it's like it's either taking action or hesitating kind of thing.
So you just don't really hesitate.
You can lay back if that's part of the strategy and stuff like that.
You can relax once part of the strategy.
But it's about making things happen.
Like, what are you trying to make things happen?
Timing wise.
So you know how like you have the thing to embarrass us.
What is the disrespect?
Remember you asked me that?
What's the disrespect?
Oh, it's the G2.
Yeah, go pass.
You're a G.
They you made up, but you made up the terminology as well.
So the disrespect is basically, when a guy pulls guard or you're in a guard scenario,
it's actually not even a guard scenario yet.
It's like you essentially treat that person like they don't even have a guard.
Like the guard doesn't even exist.
That's how little respect you have for the guard in then you just pass.
But when you kind of think about it when I think about it when you've done it to me the
times you have, it is literally that.
So before I can establish any kind of position to establish guard, you're just, yeah,
you're a pass it, you're done, you don't even consider the guard.
You know what's weird is, is where people get confused on this though, is they think,
oh, so you're saying move faster.
Yeah, right?
That's the weird thing.
Yeah, it is.
It's not, I'm sure I'll think of this at a later time, but it's not about moving faster.
Yes.
It's about moving more aggressively.
Yeah, it's not faster.
It's like being proactive and being aggressive and shutting down the situation before
or even becomes the situation that you know what's going to become.
Yeah, so if you take, like you said, like if you take a take in action and hesitation
you take those two, it's basically you're narrowing the hesitation down to zero.
It's possible.
That's literally what it is.
Yeah, just take action.
And again, you can relax, you can wait, but it's not hesitation waiting.
It's waiting, it's like more like being patient or waiting for a very specific reason.
You can do all those things, but there's no hesitation.
That's what I think that is.
And then obviously it's going to vary from the system.
Yeah, this is something you hear over and over and over again in combat leadership philosophies.
Like doing something now is better than waiting.
Doing something, doing something that's pretty good right now is infinitely better than doing
something that's great in two days.
Yeah, good when better than a great thing.
It's like the aggressive makes something happen.
Like that is so important.
Can you overdo it?
Yes, you can.
Can you make stupid decisions?
Because you rushed, yes, you can.
Is there a dichotomy in this?
Absolutely, there is.
That's, there's a dichotomy in every part of it.
So in every type of leadership, there's a dichotomy in Getsu, right?
There's a dichotomy because if I just rushed to a situation, well, that might be the
situation that you want to be to rushed to.
You gave me the opening, the trap.
Yeah, the trap.
So it's like, you know, when you're helping your friend move and then you get like three
four other friends, you know, and everyone's waiting around to be like, okay, where do
we start?
Okay, where do we put, you know, where do we start?
Who's starting first kind of thing?
The default aggressive guy is just going to start moving stuff.
Yeah.
And that seemed like, okay, that's like a little lighthearted scenario, but that's
real.
That's what I would run into it.
You know, when there's a bunch of people and we're all capable of making the decision,
it kind of paralyzes everyone because this is so true.
That scenario that you're talking about, it happens over and over and over again in the business
world.
It happens over and over again on the battlefield.
It happens on the training field where there's a bunch of people in no one's
taking leadership decision.
Yeah, like you're all it takes is someone to say, hey, we're moving this over
here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They put all this to get all the stuff off the truck right now.
Boom.
Yeah, guys are like, okay, cool, we'll make it happen.
Yeah, like your oil rig scenario of the main one.
The exact same thing.
Yeah.
And if you're default aggressive, meaning that's your default.
That's your zero.
You're that 100% then you're just pandiling business.
Right.
Your whole life until you take it too far.
Yeah, and you're trying to run stuff that other people might have a better vision of
what to do.
Like if I might be, I found moldy moving for the first time ever on our moving team.
And I come in and I'm like, hey, guess what, hey, we're going to start getting this
to heavy stuff.
And you're like, hey, actually, that's not a good idea.
We should do this.
We should get this stuff in here in the truck first or whatever, right?
Because you've been doing it longer.
So even though it's got to be your default mode, again, there's a dichotomy you can
push it too far.
Put a keypire.
I'm so open.
That's a question.
More.
Jocco.
How do self-awareness, self-assessment, and self-improvement begin and how do they continue
over time?
Well, they're all tied together.
And it starts with being self-aware, with being able to detach.
Because if you can't attach from yourself, then you can't see yourself.
And so people ask, how do you detach from yourself?
How do you learn to do that?
And a good drill for this is try to imagine the way other people see you.
And what other people are thinking of you?
And one place where this happens and it definitely happens to me is when I started getting
putting charge of things, I started thinking about other people's perspectives.
What do they see?
If you're in charge, then what are your subordinates?
See you do.
What are your subordinates?
Are you saying what kind of representation are they receiving?
And if you work for someone else, it's the same questions.
What does the boss see me do?
What does the boss hear me say?
What kind of representation am I making of myself to my boss?
And then you start thinking about what are your friends and family think?
What do they see?
What do they hear?
And so the question becomes how well do you represent yourself?
What shortfalls do you have?
Now, when you first start looking, it's like you're looking at an overgrown lawn.
There are some big obvious problems.
So you do a broad, just kind of general cut of the grass.
You fix some of the big easy problems that are obvious.
I want you to done that.
I want you to have gotten rid of some of those big obvious problems.
You notice some more detailed problems.
So you then you handle them.
And once you've got those handled, you see even smaller and more detailed issues.
So you start trying to fix them.
And that's what you do with yourself.
You continually detach and then you look and then you refine and then you detach and then
you look and then you refine and then you detach and then you look and then you refine.
That's what you do.
That's how you get better.
And that process doesn't stop.
It can't stop because if you stop refining, then the weeds grow back and the next thing
you know, you can't see yourself anymore.
And when you can't see yourself anymore, when you stop looking at yourself, then you accept
anything.
And that's wrong.
Don't accept the faults.
Don't give yourself the benefit of the doubt.
You've got to be your own harshest critic.
And hold the line and don't let go.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo Charles, if speaking of improving ourselves, should we have any recommendations
as to how we might be able to improve ourselves a little bit?
Sure, improve and maintain.
Improve maintain, improve maintain.
Well, something like that.
I would recommend.
Okay, let's start with the workout.
Work it out is established and known.
Well known.
By the way, to be one of the only things that you can do that all the fact every other
part of your life in a good way.
So also one of those things that will more health.
If you lose that, you lose everything.
It's one of those things.
So why do some of us not regard it in that way?
100% of the time.
Why do people not have time to exercise?
Lack of discipline.
Yeah.
Possibly.
It might be that short term payoff thing.
You know, it's natural to seek short term payoff.
It's natural.
Think that's it.
Because again, you lose your health, you lose everything straight up.
So why wouldn't it be first in the priority list?
I don't have time to exercise.
No, you have time to exercise.
You might not have time to rest to the stuff in life.
Really?
That's how it should be.
Right?
Nonetheless, when you're exercising, you join some like, do you generate?
But don't worry about that, even.
Because chocolate supplements, chocolate supplements.
Go super-crile oil. This will make it three for your joints for a lot of other stuff
too, by the way.
Brain.
Skin.
Skin tone.
That's like a supplemental thing.
But it is good for it nonetheless.
That's a fact.
And another one called jacquil joint warfare.
So your joints, when you start to lose the functionality of your joints, not only
does it make workouts less desirable, less fun, effective, less fun, less everything.
It can jam up your health.
Physically, you can be less capable.
So you want to maintain your joints.
I didn't know this, but now that I do, I'm never looking back.
Jacquil super-crile, take that and join warfare, maintain the joints.
Maintain the joint health.
Everything will be there.
Get the subscription so you don't run out.
That's what I say.
Straight up.
There's a panic mode if you run out.
Yeah, and you don't want that panic mode.
You don't even need that panic mode.
You don't need that in your life, even.
So wife and father.
You don't get the subscription, do the recurring one every month.
Everything wants to have an off-ing.
You take them.
Depending, you know, how, how nuts you want to get.
Also, jacquil has a supplement.
This is for your brain and your body.
All in one.
You don't have to take the pre-workout and the cognitive enhancing new tropic.
You don't have to do that anywhere.
You take to just the one called discipline.
Takes good to, 11-line.
For a small to-plier.
Oh, we got it.
No.
Well, that's a good one.
Take that. That'll help you.
That'll help you to stay on task.
Find all the words that you're looking for to use.
You know, you don't want to, what do you call that anyway?
That brain, far-brain, far-certainly more.
Not lanes, not lane, it's not lane, it's a lane word when I say it.
Absent, mind, didn't this?
You know, it kind of combats all that stuff.
Present, mind, madness is the opposite of apps.
Technically.
Right, that's technically, yeah.
Nonetheless, promote that.
And you're all good. It's called discipline.
Get all these at originmain.com.
The company is origin. I say origin main.
I just, that's the company I say it's origin main.
But it's really called origin.
It's in main.
The website is originmain.com.
Also an origin main.
Gees and Rashgarts for your jiu-jitsu journey.
Important journey, by the way.
I would say 90.
I would say everyone.
100% 100%.
Almost 100% of people who start jiu-jitsu will say, okay, it's valuable.
Whether they stick with it or not, you cannot deny the value of jiu-jitsu.
Even though that one of the questions earlier,
boom, you inoculate yourself, you know,
to all these things.
And it's weird how it affects the rest of your life.
Jiu-jitsu is good.
Yeah, for your whole life.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, when you start, you get asked,
what gees should I get?
Guess what? Origin.
You get an origin-gee, main in America.
The fabrics made in America.
The cotton to make the fabric is made in America.
We're going all the way down to grown.
He's straight up from dirt, from the dirt.
To the sugar.
To the geetop, to all that stuff.
They also got hoodies.
Pizza and me some new sweat suit situation.
No, joggers.
Are they nice?
Got them on right now.
Straight up, most comfortable.
Most comfortable clothes.
Close.
This goes for all clothing.
I've ever had.
And that's saying a lot.
It's really most comfortable for us.
Straight up is straight up.
Yes.
100%.
Is it because it's made in America?
Maybe, maybe not.
But it does speak a lot for the quality of origin in it of itself.
And oh, wait, it's comfortable because it was made in America.
That's the question.
Is it?
Or isn't it?
I don't know.
But it is comfortable.
100%.
The most comfortable.
That's a good type.
I know it is.
Because you are one that deals high and comfort.
Yes.
I mean, comfort kind of sore.
100%.
And this one graded off the charts.
Check.
But later, you take a break.
So I export stuff.
You know, in video editing, especially if actually you had to export.
So 3D stuff, export takes long time.
3D studio max.
So what it's called.
Ticks long time.
So while it exports, you start using your computer doing other things.
It kind of, you know, you can jam your up.
It'll slow down your computer whatever.
So you know, I take a little break.
I'm going to lay it out on the couch.
I'm going to order you in whole sweat suit on.
Get some.
And I lay down on the couch.
And like this for some reason, I'm the most comfortable I've ever been in my life.
You need to make.
I'll talk to Pete.
You need like a signature series.
Come for it.
Yeah.
Right.
Have it on right now.
That's it.
You know, you got to do a rename and embroidery on the side.
Boom.
That's awesome.
That's it.
You know, you got to do a rename and embroidery on the side.
Boom.
That's awesome.
So comfort is kind of a subjective thing.
Maybe.
Well, okay.
I challenge anyone.
If you have the origin sweatsuit or if you get one, get on it.
Lay it on on your couch.
Temperature would have to be just right because if it's hot and you have sweatsuit on,
and nothing is comfortable.
But keep that in mind.
I challenge you to do that.
Report back.
If it's not the most comfortable, let me know for 100%.
You're going to taste them for real comfort.
American made comfort to buy the way.
Also.
If you're into jujitsu.
Right.
If you're not into jujitsu, there was a jujitsu immersion camp on all this 26 this year.
Goes to September 2nd, one week.
Two sessions in that one week.
Yeah.
I'm going.
Jocca's doing going.
And so it's Dave Burke.
The real top gun.
Burke.
Yes.
Good deal.
You know why he's going?
He sounded like a good deal.
It's a good deal.
It's a win, win, win, win.
It's like the best.
A good deal.
It's like the best case scenario kind of thing.
That's what a good deal Dave is all about.
That's just him.
That's how he is.
How he rolls.
Unless.
Other people would be there.
It wasn't either.
Hopefully JP.
Yeah.
And life.
Well, life just got his a strike.
Another strike on the white belt.
No white belt.
Yeah.
So he might very well be there.
I think I'll be able to do it by that.
Maybe.
Should this pace?
Yeah.
If he keeps trading hard.
And he has part of the knowledge as well.
Yeah.
He never know.
So did you see, immerse yourself in your just to best
wait and learn in my opinion.
Mine too.
Not even if you've never gone go.
Because last time I even went on the side with beginner beginners.
Like one day zero days experience boom.
We go through some stuff from and I'm not saying look cool.
I'm such a good teacher.
I'm not saying that at all.
But after like that session, they were ready to go start rolling.
Humble brag.
Just saying.
I know this because that's what they said.
Not all of them, but some of them said that.
Nonetheless, I'm saying there's a lot of values.
You did some value if you've never done you used to before.
Never.
Yeah.
Go.
OriginMain.com.
Check it out.
See if it's for you.
It's for you.
But you want to make sure and check on that one.
It's a good one.
Also, joc was a store.
It's called jocostor.
Go to jocostor.com.
So jocostor is where you can get shirts, t-shirts.
This one equals for you.
Get after it.
Sure.
With jocles big head on it.
This is good.
Just for those days that you're powering through some adversity.
Whatever.
Got joclery right on your shirt.
Oh, good.
Rashgarts, hoodies, patches.
Beenies.
Are either on there or they're like literally on the way.
The wheels are your motion, man.
Check.
I can't stop it.
Can't stop it.
Right, no.
A lot of cool stuff on there.
Stickers, some decals on there.
It's good.
Anyway, you don't have to get something.
But go on there.
Check it out.
If you like something, get something.
Really good way to support.
Also, for workout gear equipment.
You want to introduce some variety in movements in your workout.
Good place to go.
kettlebells, battle ropes, maces.
Go to on it.com slash jockel.
I once said, well, actually more than once said that.
Jockel's workouts are boring.
They're not.
I get it.
They're not boring.
I retract that statement.
But if you run the risk of gear workouts being boring, just get some new equipment.
Actually, it's good.
Because you know when you get new equipment,
like it, even something that's supposed to jump rope.
Right, when you get it, kind of rejuvenates a little party.
You know, it's like when you get a new geek.
You want to go to practice more.
You know, you buy some new running shoes.
Like you kind of compelled to go running.
So you're basically still a five year old.
Whatever.
We kind of all are in a way.
And if you go to on it.
You get some new fitness gear.
It'll introduce a little variety to your workout.
Different gear, different movement, different workout.
Keep it on the path even more.
And make it interesting.
Maybe fun, man.
I think it's my opinion.
Anyway, on it.
I'm slash jockel.
Good spot.
Good way to support.
Also, when you're buying any of the books that we review on this podcast.
Don't worry.
I organized them on our website.
Talk about gas.com in the book section.
Just click through there.
Get the books through there.
And if you're doing any other shopping.
Hey, carry on.
Do you shopping?
Good way to support.
Also, subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't already on iTunes, Stitcher, Google Play.
And any podcast app that you might use.
Not a new app, by the way.
Doing podcasts.
Yeah, subscribe.
Good way to support.
Also, we have a YouTube channel.
If you are interested in the video version of this podcast.
Subscribe to YouTube channel.
There's some excerpts on there along with the video version.
And enhanced excerpts.
Just good.
Do you live with a message with some cool music or something?
Anyway, shareable stuff.
Like so, you don't have to share a two, three hour podcast with someone.
And then, you know, when you get something in your message or inbox or whatever.
And it's two hours long.
And I'm watching it straight up.
In fact, I would say even right when you press play.
Before you even get to like five seconds in, you check.
See how long it is.
I think that's a normal protocol.
That is a normal protocol.
You see two hours you're clicking right out of there.
The friends, what it is.
Depend on what it is and depends on.
But there's not too often that you just got a two hour block from sitting the sit in the side.
Right.
Randomly somebody sent me a video.
Yeah.
I'll watch right now.
Yeah, that's not happening.
Yeah, typically doesn't happen like that.
But three minutes, four minutes.
Yeah.
And you might share it with your, you know, your friend.
Yeah, so subscribe YouTube channel.
Good way to support.
Also.
Psychological warfare.
You know what that is?
This is what it is.
It's an album with tracks on this album.
Not music tracks.
It's jockel tracks.
And these tracks each track is designated engineered.
If you will.
To help you me.
To help me.
It's what it is.
But it will help you.
Get past little moments of weakness that you might encounter.
I'm not saying everyone's going to encounter it.
Everyone probably will encounter it.
But that's not the point here.
Point is, if you do encounter it, you got something to help you.
You got jockel to help you.
That's a good deal.
You want to skip to work out or something like this.
You don't feel like working out.
That's really what it is.
The comfort of not working out is distracting you is what it is.
But it seems more appealing than the discomfort of working out.
So what it is.
And then you listen to a track.
There's a certain track for that.
Jocquie explains to you why you shouldn't miss the workout.
Boom.
Part of the workout you're good.
And for every little weakness that you might come across is a track for it.
It's all good.
Just check it out.
And think like dang is that one of my weaknesses is boom.
Just get it.
You're good to go.
100% success rate in my experience.
Cool.
Also you can get jocquie-t, which I'm not even saying anything else about it because I don't have to.
Because this is a drink that guarantees in 8,000 pound deadlift.
And so what else?
What else could I say?
Regardless of age, everyone should know.
And you should be careful with that.
Because my 8-year-old daughter, she drinks from jocquie-t, 8,000 pounds.
DL.
Get something.
All right, books.
Way the warrior kid.
You probably already read the first way the warrior kid book.
If you haven't, you can get that right now.
You can also get way the warrior kid too.
Which you have not read yet.
It's called the Marks Mission.
You haven't read yet because it comes out April 24th.
It has more lessons.
Life lessons.
How to be a better human being.
How's that for a good subtitle?
By the way, my nephew, my actual nephew.
He likes book too.
Better.
He liked book one.
He likes book too.
Better.
Judge for yourself.
Preorder now wherever books are sold.
So that it will be at your door on April 24th when it comes out.
And I'll top of that when you buy this book.
You're helping another kid see this book.
If that makes sense, like when you buy this book, someone else is going to see it.
It's going to elevate it.
And other people are going to see it.
We're trying to spread the word.
So the more we sell out of the gate, the more kids are going to hear about this book and the first book.
So get a copy for your kids, your neighbor kids, your classroom at school.
The library.
Get as many copies as you can because we're going to help out a lot of kids.
Get their lives on the path with this book.
If you don't believe me, check out Adon.
It's a warrior kid.
12 years old.
Own business.
You can get his soap.
Jocco soap.
From Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
So you can stay clean, which is important.
Also don't forget about this.
It's a new business for you.
You can get your house on the street and you can just free them.
The manual.
The manual for getting after it.
Which is what you should do.
What we should all do.
How do you do it though.
That's the question.
And the answer is in the field manual.
This doesn't go to freedom.
Field manual.
If you have the audio version.
It's not unautable.
It's on Amazon.
Music, Google play.
Other MP3 platforms.
Also extreme ownership.
Combat leadership applied to the battlefield.
Amazon best seller number one why?
Cause it works.
Read it.
And right now you can also order the follow on book to extreme ownership.
It's called the dichotomy of leadership.
You heard me talk a little bit about dichotomy today.
And in this book, Lafin I go into the granular principles and examples from the battlefield
and from business that will make you a better leader and a better person.
All those little scenarios we talked about today.
If you read them and understand them, you'll be ready for you when you get punched in
the face with them.
So pre-error that book now or you're going to have to wait.
That's what happens.
If you don't pre-order, the book comes out and you don't get your copy.
Cause you hesitate.
Don't hesitate.
That book comes out September 25th.
And if you need an intrusive leadership training with your team, then you need echelon
front.
My leadership consultant company.
It's me, Lafin, JP to now, Dave Burke in pho and echelon front.com.
Or you can just visit the website echelon front.com.
We solve problems through leadership.
That's all.
And of course there's the master, which is our leadership seminar.
We're the only doing two years.
Two of these this year, one in Washington, D.C., May 17th, 18th, one in San Francisco, October
17th, and 18th.
These events are well on the way to being sold out.
That's all there is to it.
Can we any other monsters this year?
Come to one of these.
We will be there.
We will not be hiding backstage.
We will be out front with you.
Join us there, register at extremotorship.com.
Also there is roll call 001 happening September 21st in Dallas, Texas.
This is for current military, law enforcement firefighters, paramedics and other first responders.
We appreciate what it is that you all do every day.
And we want to help you do it even better.
So one day leadership seminar about leading in a dynamic environment, you can sign up for
that at extremotorship.com as well.
And until we do see you at the master at the roll call, if there's some reason that
you want to continue this conversation with us, you can find us on the interwebs.
That Twitter on Instagram and inside the face, people, hot this, you will find echo, who
is at echo Charles.
And I am at Jocca Willink and thanks to all the military folks that are out there
tonight at some forgotten barricade, waiting and ready for whatever comes into the police
and law enforcement firefighters, EMTs and other first responders who are here on the
home front, also waiting and also ready for whatever comes, thanks to all of you and to
everyone else that is out there listening, but not just listening, more important watching,
watching yourself, observing yourself, looking to see what you can do better and where
you can be better so that you can become better, keep yourself in check, hold the line
and get after it.
Until next time, this is echo and Jocco out.